---
layout: post
title: Week 04
---

## Document clustering based on non-negative matrix factorization

The paper proposes a new method to cluster documents by content, based on matrix factorization of the matrix frequency of words per document. The good thing about the paper is that it thoroughly explains the math and methods necessary to implement the algorithm.

Where the paper lacks, is in the comparison to other methods. To evaluate the method, the paper compared it to SVD, which is also based on matrix factorization. For this new method it would be interesting to also compare it with other more different methods to properly evaluate its performance.


## Content-based artwork recommendation: integrating painting metadata with neural and manually-engineered visual features

The paper describes the implementation of a recommender system to recommend one-of-a-kind art in an online gallery. 

The system is a content-based one that uses multiple methods: artist preference, curated attributes, deep neural visual features and manually-engineered visual features. The paper extensively evaluates how each of this features affects the performance of the model. In the end, a hybrid model that takes into consideration all these features is found to work best. The DNN features and favorite artist attribute were specially useful to improve the performance of the model.

Something that I would critique the paper about, is that while the DNN features provided really useful for the recommender system, these features were extracted using already pretrained weights. It would be interesting to study if training the neural net to specifically extract features for artworks (instead of using the pretrained weights as is) would result in a significant increase in performance.

