---
layout: post
title: Week 01
---

# Collaborative filtering recommender systems


The paper is about  Collaborative filtering (CF), the process of
filtering or evaluating items through the opinions of other people.  

The paper explains the core concepts of CF systems, their history, the tasks they are used for, common CF algorithms, the trade-offs when designing such systems and the different ways to evaluate such systems are working as intended, ending with the ongoing challenges of CF systems and some open questions.

Something I find really interesting of this paper, is that it not only focus in the algorithm part of the systems. It also explains the different trade-offs when designing systems, trade-offs, which independently from the algorithm used to recommend, also affect the use and performance of the model. For example: how do you acquire ratings? explicitly or implicitly?, what do you do when there aren't any initial ratings? what kind of scale do you use for the ratings?

Another interesting idea from the paper, is that it mentions the differences between predicting and making a recommendation: for a recommendation, the system only needs to be prepared to offer a few alternatives. While to make a prediction, the system must be prepared to to say something for any and every item.

One thing that a find the paper lacked, is that while it extensively explained the different kinds of non-probabilistic algorithms, the section about probabilistic algorithms was really short.  


# Slope One Predictors for Online Rating-Based Collaborative Filtering

The paper compares current model and memory based schemes for collaborative filtering to the proposed model of Slope One (of the form f(x) = x + b). It shows that the Slope One method can compete against more expensive memory based schemes, all while using a simple, easy to implement and efficient algorithm, and expecting little from first time visitors.

One thing to take from this paper is that an specially complex algorithm isn't necessary to make good predictions, much of the strength of the Slope One method comes from using information which at first glance seems unrelated to predicting the rating of an item for a certain user: it also takes into consideration the ratings of others users which have rated common items.

